. what is Apache Kafka?
Publish-subscribe messaging system

Apache Kafka is a publish-subscribe messaging system developed by Apache written in Scala. It is a distributed, partitioned and replicated log service. 
Learn more about Apache Kafka, follow the link: Apache Kafka Tutorial- Apache Kafka For Beginners


What is ISR in kafka?
“in-sync” replicas

Kafka is a distributed, partitioned, replicated commit log service. It provides the functionality of a “isr” is the set of “in-sync” replicas. 
Learn more about Apache Kafka, follow the link: Apache Kafka Tutorial- Apache Kafka For Beginners



what is the Role of Zookeeper in Kafka?
co-ordination service
Zookeeper is an open source, high-performance co-ordination service used for distributed applications adapted by Kafka.
 Learn more about Apache Kafka, follow the link: Apache Kafka Workflow | Kafka Pub-Sub Messaging
 
 Mention what happens if the preferred replica is not in the ISR?
 
 the controller will fail
 
 If the preferred replica is not in the ISR, the controller will fail to move leadership to the preferred replica. Learn more about Apache Kafka, 
 
 
 
 Mention what is the maximum size of the message does Kafka server can receive?
 1000000 bytes
 
 
 The maximum size of the message that Kafka server can receive is 1000000 bytes.
 
 
 
 Do we need zookeeper for running kafka?
 
 Yes we need zookeeper for running kafka because zookeeper is a cluster coordinator for kafa which stores the topic offset id.
 
 
 
 In which language kafka is written?
 Kafka is written in Scala langauge. 
 
 
 Which of the following can be referred to as a publish-subscribe messaging system?
 
 Apache Kafka is basically the publish-subscribe based fault-tolerant messaging system.
 
 
 What is referred to as a broker in Kafka?
 
 Generally, Brokers are referred to as a Server in Apache Kafka
 
 Which amongst the following is used to communicate between two nodes?
 Kafka uses Zookeeper to communicate between two nodes.
 
 How many traditional methods of message transfer are available in Kafka?
 
 There are two methods: Queuing and Pusblish Subscribe. 
 
 
 Queuing is method of which of these?
 Traditional message transfer are of two types: Queuing and Publish Subscribe ; 
 
 Which organization originally developed Kafka?
 Linkedln
 
 
 
 What major role does a Kafka Producer API play?
 Basically, Kafka Producer API permits an application to publish a stream of records to one or more Kafka topics. 
 
 
 
 Why is replication necessary in Kafka? Because it ensures that...
 
 
 A published message will not be lost
 
 
 If we replicate mesages, then a published message will not be lost, thats why we need Replication
 
 
 
 
 
 